** Apache MXNet; version v1.5.1 -- https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet
Copyright 2017 and onwards The Apache Software Foundation

Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004

http://www.apache.org/licenses/ TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND
DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
      distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
      copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
      entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control
      with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means
      (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management
      of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of
      fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii)
      beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
      permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation source,
      and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited
      to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to
      other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object
      form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright
      notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is
      provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form,
      that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial
      revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent,
      as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this
      License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable
      from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and
      Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original
      version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
      Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for
      inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal
      Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the
      purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic,
      verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its
      representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic
      mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems
      that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of
      discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is
      conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright
      owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on
      behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
   License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
   non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to
   reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
   sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or
   Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
   License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
   non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in
   this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell,
   import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to
   those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily
   infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their
   Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted.
   If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
   cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a
   Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory
   patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this
   License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is
   filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
   Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and
   in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a
      copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating
      that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
      distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices
      from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not
      pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
      distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include
      a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE
      file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
      Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a
      NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the
      Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative
      Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
      wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the
      NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
      License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works
      that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from
      the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be
      construed as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may
      provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,
      reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such
      Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
      distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in
      this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
   Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the
   Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without
   any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing
   herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement
   you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
   names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except
   as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the
   Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
   writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
   Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any
   warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining
   the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks
   associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether
   in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
   applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to
   in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including
   any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
   character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability
   to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
   work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other
   commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of
   the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work
   or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,
   acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations
   and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such
   obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole
   responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You
   agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any
   liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by
   reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability. END OF
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate
notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own
identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be
enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also
recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on
the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification
within third-party archives.

Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");

you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software

distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,

WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and

limitations under the License.

* For Apache MXNet see also this required NOTICE:
    Copyright 2017 and onwards The Apache Software Foundation

------

** libquadmath; version 4.8.4 --
https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc-4.8.4/libquadmath/
GCC Quad-Precision Math Library
   Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
   Written by Francois-Xavier Coudert  <fxcoudert@gcc.gnu.org>

    * Package libquadmath's source code may be found at:
      https://amazon-source-code-downloads.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/neuron/gcc-4.8_4.8.4.orig.tar.gz

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301
    USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

------

** Apache MXNet Subcomponents; version v1.5.1 --
https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet
======================================================================================
    Apache MXNET (incubating) Subcomponents:

    The Apache MXNET (incubating) project contains subcomponents with separate
    copyright
    notices and license terms. Your use of the source code for the these
    subcomponents is subject to the terms and conditions of the following
    licenses (full text in Appendix).

    =======================================================================================
    Apache-2.0 licenses
    =======================================================================================

The following components are provided under an Apache 2.0 license.

    1. MXNet Cpp-package - For details, /cpp-package/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2015-2016 by Contributors
    2. MXNet rcnn - For details, see, example/rcnn/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
    3. MXNet scala-package - For details, see, scala-package/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, the respective contributors
    4. Warp-CTC - For details, see, 3rdparty/ctc_include/LICENSE
         Copyright 2015-2016, Baidu USA LLC.
    5. 3rdparty/dlpack - For details, see, 3rdparty/dlpack/LICENSE
         Copyright 2017 by Contributors
    6. 3rdparty/dmlc-core - For details, see, 3rdparty/dmlc-core/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors
         Copyright 2015 by dmlc-core developers
         Copyright by Contributors
    7. 3rdparty/mshadow - For details, see, 3rdparty/mshadow/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2014-2016 by Contributors
         Copyright by Contributors
    8. 3rdparty/tvm - For details, see, 3rdparty/tvm/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2016-2018 by Contributors
         Copyright 2018 by Contributors
         Copyright (c) 2018 by Xilinx, Contributors
    9. 3rdparty/tvm/dmlc-core - For details, see,
    3rdparty/tvm/3rdparty/dmlc-core/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors
    10. 3rdparty/tvm/dlpack - For details, see,
    3rdparty/tvm/3rdparty/dlpack/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2015-2017 by Contributors
         Copyright by Contributors
    11. 3rdparty/ps-lite - For details, see, 3rdparty/ps-lite/LICENSE
          Copyright 2015 Carnegie Mellon University
          Copyright 2016, ps-lite developers
          Copyright (c) 2015-2016 by Contributors
          Copyright by Contributors
    12. 3rdparty/mkldnn - For details, see, 3rdparty/mkldnn/LICENSE
          Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Intel Corporation
          Copyright 2016-2018 Intel Corporation
          Copyright 2018 YANDEX LLC
    13. googlemock scripts/generator - For details, see,
    3rdparty/googletest/googlemock/scripts/generator/LICENSE
          Copyright [2007-2009] Neal Norwitz
          Portions Copyright [2007-2009] Google Inc.
    14. MXNet clojure-package - For details, see,
    contrib/clojure-package/LICENSE
          Copyright 2018 by Contributors
    15. MXNet R-package - For details, see, R-package/LICENSE
          Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors
    16. ONNX-TensorRT benchmark package - For details, see,
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/benchmark/LICENSE
          Copyright 2015 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
          Copyright 2016 Ismael Jimenez Martinez. All rights reserved.
          Copyright 2017 Roman Lebedev. All rights reserved.
    17. Dockerfiles - For details, see docker/Dockerfiles/License.md
    18. MXNet Julia Package - For details, see julia/LICENSE.md
          Copyright (c) 2015-2018 by Chiyuan Zhang
    19. Benchdnn - For details, see 3rdparty/mkldnn/tests/benchdnn/README.md
          Copyright 2017-2018 Intel Corporation
    20. MXNet perl-package - For details, see perl-package/README
    21. MXNet perl-package AI-MXNET - For details, see
    perl-package/AI-MXNet/README
    22. MXNet perl-package AI-MXNET Gluon Contrib - For details, see
    perl-package/AI-MXNet-Gluon-Contrib/README
    23. MXNet perl-package AI-MXNET Gluon ModelZoo - For details, see
    perl-package/AI-MXNet-Gluon-ModelZoo/README
    24. MXNet perl-package AI-MXNETCAPI - For details, see
    perl-package/AI-MXNetCAPI/README
    25. MXNet perl-package AI-NNVMCAPI - For details, see
    perl-package/AI-NNVMCAPI/README
    26. Cephes Library Functions - For details, see
    src/operator/special_functions-inl.h
          Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors
          Copyright 1984, 1987, 1992 by Stephen L. Moshier


    =======================================================================================
    MIT licenses
    =======================================================================================

    1. Fast R-CNN  - For details, see example/rcnn/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
    2. Faster R-CNN - For details, see example/rcnn/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2015 Microsoft Corporation
    3. tree_lstm - For details, see example/gluon/tree_lstm/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2017 Riddhiman Dasgupta, Sheng Zha
    4. OpenMP - For details, see 3rdparty/openmp/LICENSE.txt
         Copyright (c) 1997-2016 Intel Corporation
    6. HalideIR - For details, see 3rdparty/tvm/3rdparty/HalideIR/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2016 HalideIR contributors
         Copyright (c) 2012-2014 MIT CSAIL, Google Inc., and other contributors
         Copyright (c) 2016-2018 by Contributors
    7. ONNX-TensorRT - For details, see 3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
         Copyright (c) 2018 Open Neural Network Exchange
    8. ONNX-TensorRT - For details, see
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) Facebook, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation.
    9. clipboard.js - Refer to https://zenorocha.github.io/clipboard.js
         Licensed MIT © Zeno Rocha
    10. clipboard.min.js - Refer to https://zenorocha.github.io/clipboard.js
         Licensed MIT © Zeno Rocha


    =======================================================================================
    3-clause BSD licenses
    =======================================================================================

    1. Xbyak - For details, see 3rdparty/mkldnn/src/cpu/xbyak/COPYRIGHT
         Copyright (c) 2007 MITSUNARI Shigeo
         Copyright 2016-2018 Intel Corporation
    2. gtest - For details, see, 3rdparty/mkldnn/tests/gtests/gtest/LICENSE
         Copyright 2005-2008, Google Inc.
    3. Moderngpu - For details, see,
    3rdparty/ctc_include/contrib/moderngpu/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
    4. CUB Library - For details, see, 3rdparty/nvidia_cub/LICENSE.TXT
         Copyright (c) 2010-2011, Duane Merrill.  All rights reserved.
         Copyright (c) 2011-2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
    5. CUB mersenne.h - For details, see 3rdparty/nvidia_cub/test/mersenne.h
         Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002, Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura,
    6. Googlemock - For details, see, 3rdparty/googletest/googlemock/LICENSE
         Copyright 2006-2015, Google Inc.
    7. Googletest - For details, see, 3rdparty/googletest/googletest/LICENSE
         Copyright 2005-2015, Google Inc.
    8. OpenMP Testsuite - For details, see, 3rdparty/openmp/testsuite/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 University of Houston System


    =======================================================================================
    2-clause BSD licenses
    =======================================================================================

    1. Sphinx JavaScript utilties for the full-text search - For details, see,
    docs/_static/searchtools_custom.js
         Copyright (c) 2007-2017 by the Sphinx team
    2. blockingconcurrentqueue.h - For details, see,
    3rdparty/dmlc-core/include/dmlc/blockingconcurrentqueue.h
         ©2015-2016 Cameron Desrochers
    3. concurrentqueue.h - For details, see,
    3rdparty/dmlc-core/include/dmlc/concurrentqueue.h
         Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Cameron Desrochers.
    4. MSCOCO Toolbox - For details, see,
    example/ssd/dataset/pycocotools/coco.py
         Code written by Piotr Dollar and Tsung-Yi Lin, 2014.
    5. PyBind11 FindEigen3.cmake - For details, see
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/tools/FindEigen3.cmake
         Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Montel Laurent, <montel@kde.org>
         Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 Gael Guennebaud, <g.gael@free.fr>
         Copyright (c) 2009 Benoit Jacob <jacob.benoit.1@gmail.com>
    6. PyBind11 FindPythonLibsNew.cmake - For details, see
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/tools/FindPythonLibsNew.cmake
         Copyright 2001-2009 Kitware, Inc.
         Copyright 2012 Continuum Analytics, Inc.



    =======================================================================================
    Other Licenses
    =======================================================================================

    1. Caffe - For details, see, example/rcnn/LICENSE
         Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, the respective contributors
    2. pool.h - For details, see, src/operator/nn/pool.h
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors
    3. pool.cuh - For details, see, src/operator/nn/pool.cuh
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors
    4. im2col.h - For details, see, src/operator/nn/im2col.h
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors
    5. im2col.cuh - For details, see, src/operator/nn/im2col.cuh
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors

    6. deformable_im2col.h - For details, see,
    src/operator/contrib/nn/deformable_im2col.h
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors

    7. deformable_im2col.cuh - For details, see,
    src/operator/contrib/nn/deformable_im2col.cuh
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017 The Regents of the University of California
         (Regents)
         Copyright (c) 2014-2017, the respective contributors


    COPYRIGHT

    Caffe uses a shared copyright model: each contributor holds copyright over
    their contributions to Caffe. The project versioning records all such
    contribution and copyright details. If a contributor wants to further mark
    their specific copyright on a particular contribution, they should indicate
    their copyright solely in the commit message of the change when it is
    committed.

    LICENSE

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this
       list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice,
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation
       and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND
    ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
    FOR
    ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES;
    LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
    ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
    THIS
    SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

    By contributing to the BVLC/caffe repository through pull-request, comment,
    or otherwise, the contributor releases their content to the
    license and copyright terms herein.

    =======================================================================================

    8. MS COCO API
    For details, see, example/rcnn/LICENSE
    Copyright (c) 2014, Piotr Dollar and Tsung-Yi Lin

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this
       list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice,
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation
       and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND
    ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
    FOR
    ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES;
    LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
    ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
    THIS
    SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are
    those
    of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing official
    policies,
    either expressed or implied, of the FreeBSD Project.

    =======================================================================================

    9. Semaphore implementation in blockingconcurrentqueue.h
    This file uses a semaphore implementation under the terms of its separate
    zlib license.
    For details, see, 3rdparty/dmlc-core/include/dmlc/blockingconcurrentqueue.h
    Copyright Jeff Preshing

    =======================================================================================

    10. ONNX Export module
    For details, see, python/mxnet/contrib/onnx/mx2onnx/LICENSE

    This module is based on
    https://github.com/NVIDIA/mxnet_to_onnx/blob/master/mx2onnx_converter/#
    The original code has the following license:

    #  Copyright (c) 2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
    #
    #  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    #  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    #  are met:
    #  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    #    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    #    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    #    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    #  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
    #    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
    #    from this software without specific prior written permission.
    #
    #  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
    #  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    #  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
    #  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
    #  CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
    #  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
    #  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
    #  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
    #  OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    #  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    #  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    Now it has been changed by Apache MXNet project. Modifications have the
    following license:

    # Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    # or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    # distributed with this work for additional information
    # regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    # to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    # "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    # with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    #
    #   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    #
    # Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    # software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    # "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    # KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    # specific language governing permissions and limitations
    # under the License.
    #
    # Based on
    # https://github.com/NVIDIA/mxnet_to_onnx/blob/master/mx2onnx_converter/#
    #  Copyright (c) 2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
    #
    #  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    #  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    #  are met:
    #  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    #    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    #    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    #    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    #  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
    #    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
    #    from this software without specific prior written permission.
    #
    #  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
    #  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    #  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
    #  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
    #  CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
    #  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
    #  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
    #  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
    #  OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    #  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    #  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    =======================================================================================

    11. ONNX python bindings
    For details, see,
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/LICENSE
      Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Wenzel Jakob <wenzel.jakob@epfl.ch>, All rights
      reserved.
      Copyright (c) 2016 Trent Houliston <trent@houliston.me> and Wenzel Jakob
      <wenzel.jakob@epfl.ch>
      Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Jason Rhinelander <jason@imaginary.ca>
      Copyright (c) 2016 Klemens Morgenstern
      <klemens.morgenstern@ed-chemnitz.de> and Wenzel Jakob
      <wenzel.jakob@epfl.ch>
      Copyright (c) 2017 Henry F. Schreiner
      Copyright (c) 2016 Sergey Lyskov and Wenzel Jakob
      Copyright (c) 2016 Ben North <ben@redfrontdoor.org>
      Copyright (c) 2016 Klemens D. Morgenstern
      Copyright (c) 2016 Pim Schellart <P.Schellart@princeton.edu>
      Copyright (c) 2016 Ivan Smirnov <i.s.smirnov@gmail.com>
      Copyright (c) 2016 Sergey Lyskov

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this
       list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice,
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation
       and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
    contributors
       may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
       without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND
    ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
    LIABLE
    FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
    CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
    LIABILITY,
    OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
    USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    You are under no obligation whatsoever to provide any bug fixes, patches,
    or
    upgrades to the features, functionality or performance of the source code
    ("Enhancements") to anyone; however, if you choose to make your
    Enhancements
    available either publicly, or directly to the author of this software,
    without
    imposing a separate written license agreement for such Enhancements, then
    you
    hereby grant the following license: a non-exclusive, royalty-free perpetual
    license to install, use, modify, prepare derivative works, incorporate into
    other computer software, distribute, and sublicense such enhancements or
    derivative works thereof, in binary and source code form.

    =======================================================================================

    12. Clang
    For details, see,
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/tools/clang/LICENSE.TXT

    LLVM Release License
    University of Illinois/NCSA
    Open Source License

    Copyright (c) 2007-2012 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
    All rights reserved.

    Developed by:

        LLVM Team

        University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

        http://llvm.org

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of
    this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    with
    the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to
    use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies
    of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to
    do
    so, subject to the following conditions:

        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
        notice,
          this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
        notice,
          this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
          documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

        * Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at
          Urbana-Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to
          endorse or promote products derived from this Software without
          specific
          prior written permission.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS
    FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH
    THE
    SOFTWARE.

    The LLVM software contains code written by third parties. Such software
    will
    have its own individual LICENSE.TXT file in the directory in which it
    appears.
    This file will describe the copyrights, license, and restrictions which
    apply
    to that code.

    The disclaimer of warranty in the University of Illinois Open Source
    License
    applies to all code in the LLVM Distribution, and nothing in any of the
    other licenses gives permission to use the names of the LLVM Team or the
    University of Illinois to endorse or promote products derived from this
    Software.

    The following pieces of software have additional or alternate copyrights,
    licenses, and/or restrictions:

    Program             Directory
    -------             ---------
    <none yet>

    =======================================================================================

    13. MKL BLAS
    For details, see, [Intel® Simplified
    license](https://software.intel.com/en-us/license/intel-simplified-software-license)
    and MKLDNN_README.md

    Copyright (c) 2018 Intel Corporation.

    Use and Redistribution. You may use and redistribute the software (the
    “Software”), without modification, provided the following conditions are
    met:

    * Redistributions must reproduce the above copyright notice and the
    following terms of use in the Software and in the documentation and/or
    other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the name of Intel nor the names of its suppliers may be used to
    endorse or promote products derived from this Software without specific
    prior written permission.

    * No reverse engineering, decompilation, or disassembly of this Software is
    permitted.

    Limited patent license. Intel grants you a world-wide, royalty-free,
    non-exclusive license under patents it now or hereafter owns or controls to
    make, have made, use, import, offer to sell and sell (“Utilize”) this
    Software, but solely to the extent that any such patent is necessary to
    Utilize the Software alone. The patent license shall not apply to any
    combinations which include this software. No hardware per se is licensed
    hereunder.

    Third party and other Intel programs. “Third Party Programs” are the files
    listed in the “third-party-programs.txt” text file that is included with
    the Software and may include Intel programs under separate license terms.
    Third Party Programs, even if included with the distribution of the
    Materials, are governed by separate license terms and those license terms
    solely govern your use of those programs.

    DISCLAIMER. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE
    DISCLAIMED. THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE IN SYSTEMS OR
    APPLICATIONS WHERE FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE MAY CAUSE PERSONAL INJURY OR
    DEATH AND YOU AGREE THAT YOU ARE FULLY RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY CLAIMS, COSTS,
    DAMAGES, EXPENSES, AND ATTORNEYS’ FEES ARISING OUT OF ANY SUCH USE, EVEN IF
    ANY CLAIM ALLEGES THAT INTEL WAS NEGLIGENT REGARDING THE DESIGN OR
    MANUFACTURE OF THE MATERIALS.

    LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL INTEL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
    INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
    CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
    LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
    OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
    DAMAGE. YOU AGREE TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD INTEL HARMLESS AGAINST ANY CLAIMS
    AND EXPENSES RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE SOFTWARE.

    No support. Intel may make changes to the Software, at any time without
    notice, and is not obligated to support, update or provide training for the
    Software.

    Termination. Intel may terminate your right to use the Software in the
    event of your breach of this Agreement and you fail to cure the breach
    within a reasonable period of time.

    Feedback. Should you provide Intel with comments, modifications,
    corrections, enhancements or other input (“Feedback”) related to the
    Software Intel will be free to use, disclose, reproduce, license or
    otherwise distribute or exploit the Feedback in its sole discretion without
    any obligations or restrictions of any kind, including without limitation,
    intellectual property rights or licensing obligations.

    Compliance with laws. You agree to comply with all relevant laws and
    regulations governing your use, transfer, import or export (or prohibition
    thereof) of the Software.

    Governing law. All disputes will be governed by the laws of the United
    States of America and the State of Delaware without reference to conflict
    of law principles and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state or
    federal courts sitting in the State of Delaware, and each party agrees that
    it submits to the personal jurisdiction and venue of those courts and
    waives any objections. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
    International Sale of Goods (1980) is specifically excluded and will not
    apply to the Software.

    *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

    =======================================================================================

    14. FindJeMalloc.cmake
    For details, see cmake/Modules/FindJeMalloc.cmake

    This file is based on
    https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/blob/master/cmake/FindJemalloc.cmake
    The original code has the following license:

    # Copyright (c)      2014 Thomas Heller
    # Copyright (c) 2007-2012 Hartmut Kaiser
    # Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Matt Anderson
    # Copyright (c) 2011      Bryce Lelbach
    #
    # Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0. (See
    accompanying
    # file LICENSE_1_0.txt or copy at http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt)

    # Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

    # Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or
    organization
    # obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered
    by
    # this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
    # execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of
    the
    # Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished
    to
    # do so, all subject to the following:
    #
    # The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement,
    including
    # the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
    # must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
    # all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
    # works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated
    by
    # a source language processor.
    #
    # THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
    OR
    # IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    # FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
    # SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
    # FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR
    OTHERWISE,
    # ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
    OTHER
    # DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

    Now it has been changed by Apache MXNet project. Modifications have the
    following license:

    # Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    # or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    # distributed with this work for additional information
    # regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    # to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    # "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    # with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
    #
    #   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    #
    # Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    # software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    # "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    # KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    # specific language governing permissions and limitations
    # under the License.


    # Copyright (c)      2014 Thomas Heller
    # Copyright (c) 2007-2012 Hartmut Kaiser
    # Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Matt Anderson
    # Copyright (c) 2011      Bryce Lelbach
    #
    #----
    # Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0.
    # Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
    #
    # Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or
    organization
    # obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered
    by
    # this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
    # execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of
    the
    # Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished
    to
    # do so, all subject to the following:
    #
    # The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement,
    including
    # the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
    # must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
    # all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
    # works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated
    by
    # a source language processor.
    #
    # THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
    OR
    # IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    # FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
    # SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
    # FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR
    OTHERWISE,
    # ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
    OTHER
    # DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

    =======================================================================================

    15. FindPythonLibsNew.cmake

    For details, see
    3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/tools/FindPythonLibsNew.cmake

    # Copyright 2001-2009 Kitware, Inc.
    # Copyright 2012 Continuum Analytics, Inc.
    #
    # All rights reserved.
    #
    # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    # are met:
    #
    # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    # notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #
    # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    # notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    # documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    #
    # * Neither the names of Kitware, Inc., the Insight Software Consortium,
    # nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or promote
    # products derived from this software without specific prior written
    # permission.
    #
    # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    # "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    # # A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    # HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    # SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    # DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    # THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    # (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    # OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    =======================================================================================

    16. erfinv-inl.h

    For details, see /src/operator/contrib/erfinv-inl.h

    /*
     * Copyright (c) 2014 Indiana University
     * All rights reserved.
     * Written by Prof. Gary L. Pavlis, Dept. of Geol. Sci.,
     *           Indiana University, Bloomington, IN
     * This software is licensed under the New BSD license:
     * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms,
     * with or without modification, are permitted provided
     * that the following conditions are met:
     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above
     * copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
     * following disclaimer.
     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the
     * above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
     * the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
     * other materials provided with the distribution.
     * Neither the name of Indiana University nor
     * the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
     * or promote products derived from this software without
     * specific prior written permission.
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
     * CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
     * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
     * WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
     * PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
     * THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
     * DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
     * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
     * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
     * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
     * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
     * IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
     * NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
     * USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
     * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
     */

    =======================================================================================

    17. mersenne.h

    For details, see /3rdparty/nvidia_cub/test/mersenne.h

    /*
     A C-program for MT19937, with initialization improved 2002/1/26.
     Coded by Takuji Nishimura and Makoto Matsumoto.

     Before using, initialize the state by using init_genrand(seed)
     or init_by_array(init_key, key_length).

     Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002, Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura,
     All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
     modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
     are met:

     1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

     2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

     3. The names of its contributors may not be used to endorse or promote
     products derived from this software without specific prior written
     permission.

     THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
     "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
     LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
     A PARTICAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER
     OR
     CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
     EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
     PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
     PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
     LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
     NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
     SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


     Any feedback is very welcome.
     http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/emt.html
     email: m-mat @ math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp (remove space)
     */

    =======================================================================================

    18. FindEigen3.cmake

    For details, see
    /3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/third_party/pybind11/tools/FindEigen3.cmake

    # Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Montel Laurent, <montel@kde.org>
    # Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 Gael Guennebaud, <g.gael@free.fr>
    # Copyright (c) 2009 Benoit Jacob <jacob.benoit.1@gmail.com>
    # Redistribution and use is allowed according to the terms of the 2-clause
    BSD license.

    =======================================================================================

    19. protoc-gen-mypy.py

    For details, see
    /3rdparty/onnx-tensorrt/third_party/onnx/tools/protoc-gen-mypy.py

    # Taken from
    https://github.com/dropbox/mypy-protobuf/blob/d984389124eae6dbbb517f766b9266bb32171510/python/protoc-gen-mypy
    # (Apache 2.0 License)
    # with own fixes to
    # - appease flake8
    # - exit without error when protobuf isn't installed
    # - fix recognition of whether an identifier is defined locally
    # (unfortunately, we use a python package name
    ONNX_NAMESPACE_FOO_BAR_FOR_CI
    # on CI, which by the original protoc-gen-mypy script was recognized to be
    #    camel case and therefore handled as an entry in the local package)

    =======================================================================================

    20. rang

    For details, see /3rdparty/tvm/3rdparty/rang/LICENSE

    This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

    Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
    distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
    binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
    means.

    In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
    of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
    software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
    of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
    successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
    relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
    software under copyright law.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
    ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

    For more information, please refer to <http://unlicense.org>


    =======================================================================================
    Appendix
    =======================================================================================

    MIT License

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 3-clause BSD

    =======================================================================================

    3-Clause BSD License

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
    software without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
    ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
    INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
    ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

    =======================================================================================

    2-Clause BSD License

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
    ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
    INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
    ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

 ==================================