.. _nki_framework_custom_op:

NKI Kernel as a Framework Custom Operator
===========================================

This document demonstrates how to insert a NKI kernel as a custom
operator into a PyTorch or JAX model using simple code examples.

Using NKI kernels
-------------------------------

To register a NKI kernel registration, you need to call a decorated
NKI function.

Let's examine a guiding example below where we
randomly initialize two inputs, add them together, and then
multiply the result by the two input tensors element-wise.
This effectively calculates: ``a * b * (a + b)``.

We define a common NKI kernel for addition. This is a tiled variation of the addition kernel from
:doc:`Quickstart: Build and Run a Kernel <get-started/quickstart-implement-run-kernel>`.

.. nki_example:: /nki/examples/tensor_addition/tensor_addition_nki_kernels.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :marker: NKI_EXAMPLE_27

^^^^^^^
PyTorch
^^^^^^^

We can perform ``(a + b) * a * b`` using native PyTorch code.
::

   import torch
   from torch_xla.core import xla_model as xm

   device = xm.xla_device()

   a = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device)
   b = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device)
   c = a + b
   out = a * b * c

   print(out)

Now let's replace the tensor addition (``c = a + b``) with a NKI
kernel.
To do this we replace the ``+`` operator with a call to the NKI kernel
caller (``nki_tensor_add``), and everything else works as before.

::

   device = xm.xla_device()
   a = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device)
   b = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device)
   c = nki_tensor_add(a, b) # calling a NKI kernel, instead of the built-in torch op
   out = a * b * c
   print(out)

To understand what happens under the hood when we compile the above
code, we can print HLO IR graph generated by XLA by setting the
``NEURON_FRAMEWORK_DEBUG`` environment variable, which preserves the HLO in
binary form, and the ``XLA_SAVE_TENSORS_FILE``, which presents a textual
representation of the HLO. For example, you may add the following lines to your
code:

::

   import os
   os.environ['NEURON_FRAMEWORK_DEBUG'] = "1"
   os.environ["XLA_SAVE_TENSORS_FILE"] = "example1.pbtxt"

A ``example1.pbtxt.0`` file is then written in your run directory that has the
corresponding human-readable HLO IR.

Let's examine the XLA output of this example.
In line #14 we can identify that the tensor addition is now
mapped to an HLO ``xla::_op_<locals>CallImpl`` instruction, representing the custom call. The output of
that ``xla::_op_<locals>CallImpl`` is then consumed by the next instruction in line
#15 as usual.

.. code-block::
   :linenos:

    [ScheduleSyncTensorsGraph]
    TensorsGraphInfo:
      _str_intern (/home/ec2-user/pytorch-klir/lib/python3.10/site-packages/torch/_tensor_str.py:462)
      _str (/home/ec2-user/pytorch-klir/lib/python3.10/site-packages/torch/_tensor_str.py:726)
      __repr__ (/home/ec2-user/pytorch-klir/lib/python3.10/site-packages/torch/_tensor.py:590)
      <module> (/home/ec2-user/private-aws-neuron-sdk-staging/nki/examples/tensor_addition/t2.py:14)
    
    Root Hashes: (181deae9d76fbfbf2fe0e040179f9da8)
    
    ## BEGIN_GRAPH
    IR {
      %0 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} xla::device_data(), xla_shape=f32[256,1024]{1,0}
      %1 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} xla::device_data(), xla_shape=f32[256,1024]{1,0}
      %2 = (f32[256,1024]{1,0}) xla::_op_<locals>CallImpl(%1, %0), xla_shape=(f32[256,1024]{1,0})
      %3 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} aten::mul(%1, %0), xla_shape=f32[256,1024]{1,0}
      %4 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} aten::mul(%3, %2), xla_shape=f32[256,1024]{1,0}, ROOT=0
    }
    
    Graph Hash: f518d5bd723cb9d6f9482b42b33105e1
    
    ## END_GRAPH

The Neuron compiler replaces the above custom call with
the corresponding NKI kernel implementation while optimizing the rest of the
compute graph as usual. At the end of the compilation process, a single
compiled binary NEFF file
is generated representing the entire graph
including the NKI kernel. For more information about NEFF files, see `Neuron Compiler <https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/compiler/index.html>`__.

.. _nki_framework_custom_op_jax:

^^^
JAX
^^^

We can perform ``(a + b) * a * b`` using native JAX code.

::

   import jax
   import jax.numpy as jnp

   @jax.jit
   def jax_customop_tutorial(a, b):
      c = a + b
      out = a * b * c
      return out

   seed = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
   seed_a, seed_b = jax.random.split(seed)
   a = jax.random.normal(seed_a, (256, 1024), dtype=jnp.float32)
   b = jax.random.normal(seed_b, (256, 1024), dtype=jnp.float32)

   print(jax_customop_tutorial(a, b))

Similar to the PyTorch example above, let's replace the tensor addition ``(c = a + b)`` with
the addition NKI kernel. To do this we replace the ``+`` operator with a call to the NKI kernel
caller (``nki_tensor_add``), and everything else works as before.

::

   import jax
   import jax.numpy as jnp

   @jax.jit
   def jax_customop_tutorial(a, b):
      c = nki_tensor_add(a, b) # calling a NKI kernel, instead of the built-in jax op
      out = a * b * c
      return out

   seed = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
   seed_a, seed_b = jax.random.split(seed)
   a = jax.random.normal(seed_a, (256, 1024), dtype=jnp.float32)
   b = jax.random.normal(seed_b, (256, 1024), dtype=jnp.float32)
   print(jax_customop_tutorial(a, b))


To understand what happens under the hood when we compile the above code,
we can print the HLO IR graph by adding the following snippet to your code:

::

   print(jax.jit(jax_customop_tutorial)
      .lower(a, b)
      .compile()
      .runtime_executable()
      .hlo_modules()[0].to_string()
   )

Let's examine the XLA output of this example.
In line #8 we can identify that the tensor addition is now
mapped to an HLO ``custom-call`` instruction, similar to PyTorch. The output of
that ``custom-call`` is then consumed by the next instruction in line
#9 as usual.

.. code-block::
   :linenos:

   HloModule jit_jax_customop_tutorial, entry_computation_layout={(f32[256,1024]{1,0}, f32[256,1024]{1,0})->(f32[256,1024]{1,0})}, allow_spmd_sharding_propagation_to_parameters={}, allow_spmd_sharding_propagation_to_output={true}
   
   ENTRY %main.12 (Arg_0.1: f32[256,1024], Arg_1.2: f32[256,1024]) -> (f32[256,1024]) {
     %Arg_0.1 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} parameter(0), metadata={op_name="a"}
     %Arg_1.2 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} parameter(1), metadata={op_name="b"}
     %multiply.0 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} multiply(%Arg_0.1, %Arg_1.2), metadata={op_name="jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/jit(main)/jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/mul" source_file="/home/ec2-user/private-aws-neuron-sdk-staging/nki/examples/tensor_addition/t4.py" source_line=9}
     %constant.0 = s8[128,128]{1,0} constant({...})
     %custom-call.0 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} custom-call(%Arg_0.1, %Arg_1.2, %constant.0), custom_call_target="AwsNeuronCustomNativeKernel", api_version=API_VERSION_STATUS_RETURNING, metadata={op_name="jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/jit(main)/jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/nki_call" source_file="/home/ec2-user/jax-klir/lib/python3.10/site-packages/nki/_jax.py" source_line=64}, backend_config="eyJrZXJuZWxfdmVyc2lvbiI6IDEsICJrbGlyX2JpbmFyeSI6IHsiYmluYXJ5IjogIi90bXAvbmtpX3RlbnNvcl9hZGRncmV6aGF4eS5rbGlyIiwgImlucHV0X25hbWVzIjogWyJhX2lucHV0IiwgImJfaW5wdXQiLCAidG1wLjQiXSwgIm91dHB1dF9uYW1lcyI6IFsiY19vdXRwdXQuMzUiXX0sICJmdW5jX25hbWUiOiAibmtpX3RlbnNvcl9hZGQiLCAiZ3JpZCI6IFtdLCAiaGFzX2NvbGxlY3RpdmVzIjogZmFsc2V9"
     %multiply.1 = f32[256,1024]{1,0} multiply(%multiply.0, %custom-call.0), metadata={op_name="jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/jit(main)/jit(jax_customop_tutorial)/mul" source_file="/home/ec2-user/private-aws-neuron-sdk-staging/nki/examples/tensor_addition/t4.py" source_line=9}
     ROOT %tuple.11 = (f32[256,1024]{1,0}) tuple(%multiply.1)
   }

The Neuron compiler replaces the above custom-call with
the corresponding NKI kernel implementation while optimizing the rest of the
compute graph as usual. At the end of the compilation process, a single
compiled binary NEFF file
is generated representing the entire graph
including the NKI kernel. For more information about NEFF files, see `Neuron Compiler <https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/compiler/index.html>`__.


Using NKI in training graphs
----------------------------

If you are using NKI to implement a new operator in a training graph,
you might need to make the new operator interplay with the
``autograd`` engine in the framework. To do this, in PyTorch, you can
subclass the framework’s base operator class and implement both the ``forward()``
and ``backward()`` methods. The ``autograd`` engine then uses the ``backward()``
method when performing auto-differentiation. See
`Extending torch.autograd <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/extending.html>`__ in the
PyTorch Docs for instructions on doing this in PyTorch. To do this in JAX,
you can create a ``custom_vjp`` rule (vjp stands for Vector-Jacobian product), which binds the
``forward()`` and ``backward()`` calls. See
`Autodiff Cookbook <https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/notebooks/autodiff_cookbook.html>`__ in
the JAX Docs for instructions on doing this.

Let's reuse the ``nki_tensor_add`` kernels from before and demonstrate how to train a
simple compute graph ``(a+b)*a*b`` in both PyTorch and JAX.

.. _nki_framework_custom_op_pytorch:

^^^^^^^
PyTorch
^^^^^^^

We define a ``NkiAddFunc``
class, which leverages the ``nki_tensor_add`` kernel in its ``forward()``
function. The gradients of both input tensors in ``y = a + b`` are
ones, so the ``backward()`` function
propagates the ``dy`` gradients from the previous backward function.

::

   import torch
   import torch_xla.core.xla_model as xm
   device = xm.xla_device()

   class NkiAddFunc(torch.autograd.Function):
     @staticmethod
     def forward(ctx, a, b):
       return nki_tensor_add(a, b)

     @staticmethod
     def backward(ctx, dy, *args):
       # gradients for a and b
       return dy, dy

   # now, let's define the compute graph
   a = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device).detach().requires_grad_()
   b = torch.randn(256, 1024, dtype=torch.float32).to(device).detach().requires_grad_()
   c = NkiAddFunc.apply(a, b)
   out = a * b * c

   # here we define a (dummy) loss-function, in prep for backward propagation
   loss = out.sum()

   # lastly, let's invoke the auto-grad engine
   loss.backward()

   xm.mark_step()

^^^
JAX
^^^

We define a ``custom_vjp`` function ``nki_add_func`` by using
the ``@jax.custom_vjp`` decorator which directly calls
the ``nki_tensor_add`` kernel. We then define and register
the ``forward()`` and ``backward()`` implementations of the
``nki_add_func`` function via ``defvjp()``. Just like the PyTorch
example before, the ``backward()`` implementation simply passes
the gradients through. Finally, to start training, we execute the
forward pass by calling ``nki_add_func(a, b) * x * y``.
To get the gradients, we call ``jax.grad`` directly with a loss function.

::

   @jax.custom_vjp
   def nki_add_func(a, b):
      return nki_tensor_add(a, b)

   def f_forward(a, b):
      # operator output and residual (same as input here)
      return nki_add_func(a, b), (a, b)

   def f_backward(res, grad):
      # gradients for a and b
      return grad, grad

   nki_add_func.defvjp(f_forward, f_backward) # line 11

   @jax.jit
   def jax_customop_tutorial_and_grad(a, b):
      out = nki_add_func(a, b) * a * b

      # use the same dummy loss function (output sum) as PyTorch example above
      grad = jax.grad(lambda x, y: (nki_add_func(x, y) * x * y).sum(), argnums=(0, 1))(a, b)
      return out, *grad

   c, grad_a, grad_b = jax_customop_tutorial_and_grad(a, b)
